README.md, before:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML-239120?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS-239120?&style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

# Cypress.io 10 using Cucumber BDD and GitHub Actions

---

> ### Project made from scratch to perform automated front-end testing using cucumber as an additional framework to use BDD

---

---

---

This project test automation framework for www.saucedemo.com. SauceDemo is a sample website built by SauceLabs that allows users to practice browser automation.

---

## Installation

> Use the package manager npm [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) to install the framework and dependencies

```
npm i
```

## How to use it

```
npm run test        // Run tests with Cypress UI
npm run testcli     // Run tests with Cypress in headless mode with Chrome
```

## Reporter

### Reporter on local machine

> After run _npm run test or npm run testcli_ go to /reports folder and open index.html file

> After run the reporter command go to /reports folder and open index.html file

### Reporter on Github actions

> After run finish go to artifacts and download the reports file, unzip the file and open index.html file

## Patter Design implemented (Cypress.io + Cucumber)

### Methods/functions and Selectors

> Methods and selectors are on support/ folder and can be accesable by any file, there are one file for each page (The file should contains selectors and commands/methods) (Pages files)

> Commands.js file is a general file where you can add the general commands and selectors for all the project. (like base commands/methods)

### Logic cucumber implementation

> The implementation of logic is on cypress/e2e/cucumberStepsDef/.js, where we call the commands/methods to implement on each feature file.

### Test files (Feature files)

> The feature file are in cypress/e2e/.feature cypresscontains the Gherkin steps tests.

### License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT license](/LICENSE).

[![Cypress.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tested%20with-Cypress-04C38E.svg)](https://www.cypress.io/)

Commit message:

Last Update to GitHub Actions and Azure Pipelines

README.md, after:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML-239120?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS-239120?&style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

# Cypress.io 10 using Cucumber BDD, GitHub Actions and Azure DevOps Pipeline

---

> ### Project made from scratch to perform automated front-end testing using cucumber as an additional framework to use BDD and Axe as test accessibility tool, also adding integrations to GitHub Actions and Azure DevOps Pipelines

---

---

---

This project test automation framework for www.saucedemo.com. SauceDemo is a sample website built by SauceLabs that allows users to practice browser automation.

---

## Installation

> Use the package manager npm [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/) to install the framework and dependencies

```
npm i
```

## How to use it

```
npm run test        // Run tests with Cypress UI
npm run testcli     // Run tests with Cypress in headless mode with Chrome
```

## Reporter

### Reporter on local machine

> After run _npm run test or npm run testcli_ go to /reports folder and open index.html file

> After run the reporter command go to /reports folder and open index.html file

### Reporter on Github actions or Azure DevOps Pipeline

> After run finish go to artifacts and download the reports file, unzip the file and open index.html file

## Patter Design implemented (Cypress.io + Cucumber) (Pages Model)

### Methods/functions and Selectors

> Methods and selectors are on support/ folder and can be accesable by any file, there are one file for each page (The file should contains selectors and commands/methods) (Pages files)

> Commands.js file is a general file where you can add the general commands and selectors for all the project. (like base commands/methods)

### Logic cucumber implementation

> The implementation of logic is on cypress/e2e/cucumberStepsDef/.js, where we call the commands/methods to implement on each feature file.

### Test files (Feature files)

> The feature file are in cypress/e2e/.feature cypresscontains the Gherkin steps tests.

### License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT license](/LICENSE).

[![Cypress.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tested%20with-Cypress-04C38E.svg)](https://www.cypress.io/)
